## :zap: Giant Swarm Release 11.2.1 for KVM is now active for you! :zap:

**With this release, horizontal pod autoscaling (HPA) is enabled by default for NGINX Ingress Controller (NGINX IC) on selected cluster profiles.**

Here, you will find the NGINX IC to be more elastic thus driving down your costs. The criteria for which cluster profiles are selected will be adjusted as we collect data from running in production.

Version development included work with the upstream maintainer. Prior to release, we ran trials with customers. We performed these tests on small and large clusters alike, in order to ensure stability and scalability.

This version also includes an upgrade to the latest upstream NGINX IC 0.30.0, as well as improvements to other components (cluster-operator, chart-operator, coredns) as detailed in the changelog.

To upgrade, please contact your Solution Engineer.

Below, you can find more details on components that were changed with this release.

### chart-operator [v0.12.1](https://github.com/giantswarm/chart-operator/releases/tag/v0.12.1)

- Added chartmigration resource for migrating from chartconfig to chart CRs.
- Updated release resource.
  - Do not wait when installing or updating long running Helm releases.
  - Use version field from chart CR to reduce number of HTTP requests to pull chart tarballs.
  - Wait for deleted Helm release before removing finalizer. 
- Updated status resource.
  - Improve reason field in CR status when installing a chart fails.
- Removed legacy chartconfig controller.

### cluster-operator [v0.23.8](https://github.com/giantswarm/cluster-operator/releases/tag/v0.23.8)

- Gracefully handle Tenant Cluster API errors during cluster deletion.
- Initial cluster profile detection support.

### coredns  v1.6.5 ([Giant Swarm app v1.1.8](https://github.com/giantswarm/coredns-app/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v118-2020-03-20))

- Add Pod Disruption Budget.
- Allow custom forward configuration destination and options.
- Make `autopath` plugin configurable, optional and disabled by default.

### kube-state-metrics v1.9.2 ([Giant Swarm app v1.0.4](https://github.com/giantswarm/kube-state-metrics-app/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v104))

- Removed CPU and memory limits to improve reliability.

### net-exporter [v1.7.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/net-exporter/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v170-2020-03-20)

- Ignore dial error if the Pod doesn't exist anymore.

### nginx-ingress-controller v0.30.0 ([Giant Swarm app v1.6.5](https://github.com/giantswarm/nginx-ingress-controller-app/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v165-2020-03-23))

- Enabled HorizontalPodAutoscaler by default for selected cluster profiles.
- Updated from upstream `ingress-nginx` v0.29.0 - for details see the [changelog](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/releases/tag/nginx-0.30.0).
- Configured app icon.
