## :zap:  Giant Swarm Release 11.3.0 for Azure :zap:

This release replaces CoreOS Container Linux that is going [end of life](https://coreos.com/os/eol/) on the 26th of May 2020 with [Flatcar Container Linux](https://www.flatcar-linux.org/). Flatcar is a compatible fork of CoreOS which receives ongoing support, including security updates and fixes. To learn more please read our recent blog post: [Time to Catch a New Train: Flatcar Linux](https://www.giantswarm.io/blog/time-to-catch-a-new-train-flatcar-linux)

**The creation of new clusters with this release works as usual. New clusters will contain Flatcar OS from the start.**

The migration process requires replacing the VMSS CoreOS Container Linux image with Flatcar Container Linux image which, [due to Azure limitations](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machine-scale-sets/virtual-machine-scale-sets-upgrade-scale-set#create-time-properties), is not possible in-place. In order to enable existing clusters to upgrade to this release, we had to amend the standard procedure with additional steps to replace the old VMSS with a new one, ensuring all your workload is moved.

### Warning
The following steps will be undertaken during the upgrade procedure:
1. Once you start the upgrade, we will be notified in order to be hands on during the procedure.
2. The upgrade will start by replacing the master. The old master will be stopped as we need the final state of the ETCD data to be frozen for the migration. Once this is done, the new VMSS for the master instance will be created (:information_source: Due to the recent Azure disk provisioning performance,  this can take several tries, hence extend the upgrade time).
It is important to remember that while the switch is in progress for the master instance, the workloads will be unaffected as long as the pods do not fail, as rescheduling will not be possible as long as the master is not up.
3. When the new VMSS master instance is ready, the upgrade will be waiting for the GS staff to migrate the ETCD data manually from the old master instance to the new one. After the migration is done on our side, the old instance will be removed and the new instance will join the cluster.
4. After the master is upgraded successfully, the upgrade will proceed with the worker instances. Here, the process is simpler. The Azure Operator will create a VMSS with Flatcar Container Linux images and migrate the workloads, as you are used to during the previous upgrades.
5. Finally, when all your workload is migrated, the VMSS running the CoreOS Container Linux instances will be deleted.

Due to the additional steps in the upgrade process, the whole procedure will take more time. As it also requires a manual intervention on our side, could you please **schedule all the upgrades to 11.3.0 with your Solution Engineer at least a day in advance**. This will allow us to prepare and guarantee you the appropriate support throughout the upgrade process.

Our initial tests showed up to 2% loss of incoming traffic over the time period of 5-10min. It was not reproduced in the following tests but because of the complexity of the process you should be aware that this may occur.

### Workflow change notice

If you are upgrading from 8.4.1 or 9.0.0:

Configuration that used to be on the Tenant Cluster has been moved to the Control Plane.

Services like the `nginx-ingress-controller`, `coredns`, and `cluster-autoscaler`
are no longer configurable through ConfigMaps on the tenant cluster.

Existing ConfigMaps will be automatically migrated when you upgrade, however if
you do not have access to the Control Plane API you will not be able to
manually configure these services.

e.g: If you had a cluster with id `e05c8`, then you'll find your
`nginx-ingress-controller-user-values` configmap now in a namespace called `e05c8`
on the Control Plane.

Please contact your Solution Engineer for more information.